.\"
.\" Man page for DreamDaemon
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, Dantom.
.\"
.\" We welcome you to distribute this software.
.\"
.\" Dantom
.\" dantom@dantom.com
.\"
.\"
.TH DreamDaemon 6 "July 20, 2001"
.LO 6
.SH NAME
DreamDaemon \- Host BYOND worlds and CGI programs.
.SH SYNOPSIS
DreamDaemon world.dmb [port] [options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B DreamDaemon
is the BYOND server program.  It executes .dmb (byte-code) programs generated
by
.BR DreamMaker .
Such .dmb programs are platform independent, so they may be compiled by
.B DreamMaker
in a completely different operating system.

.SH ARGUMENTS

.TP
.B \^world.dmb
This is a DM byte-code file produced by
.BR DreamMaker .
In addition to this file,
.B DreamDaemon
looks for
.IR world.rsc ,
in the same directory.  This file may contain icons, sounds, and other
"resources" stored by the compiler.

.TP
.B \^port
This is a network port number on which to accept Dream Seeker connections.
If none is specified or if the value 0 or
.B any
is used, any available port may be chosen.  See
.B PORTS
for additional options.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.B \-\^cd " path"
Use the specified path as the working directory.  The default is
the directory containing the world file.

.TP
.B \-\^cgi
Run in CGI mode.  This is normaly compiled directly into the .dmb
by setting 
.BR world.executor ,
which in turn is normally done automatically by including
.BR Dantom.CGI .

.TP
.B \-\^core
Produce a core dump if DreamDaemon crashes.

.TP
.B \-\^home " path"
Use the specified path as the top safe directory.  The default is
the directory containing the world file.

.TP
.B \-\^invisible
Don't broadcast the world to the BYOND hub.

.TP
.B \-\^log " logfile"
Send stderr to the specified file.

.TP
.B \-\^logself
Send stderr to 
.IR world.log ,
where
.I world
is the name of the .dmb file (minus the .dmb).


.TP
.B \-\^once
Shutdown after users log out.

.TP
.B \-\^params " var=value"
Any number of parameter assignments may be made or a single form-url-encoded
string may be provided that includes multiple assignments.  These parameters
are made available to the DM program in 
.BR world.params .

.TP
.B \-\^ports " range"
Specify a range of ports that may be used when a specific port is not
specified.  This also applies to any child worlds spawned by the
.B startup()
DM instruction, which is used by host servers to dynamically execute
worlds when they are requested by users.  See
.B PORTS
for more options.

The syntax for 
.I range
is a comma separated list of numbers or ranges of numbers.  Example:

.B \-ports 1234,1236,1240-1250

.TP
.B \-\^quiet
Generate less noise in the log file.  The main difference is
that the world does not advertise when it starts up.

.TP
.B \-\^safe
Allow access to files and subdirectories in the same location as
the world file.  Shell commands may not be executed.  This is the
default if the world file is in a safe directory.  A safe directory
is one with the same name as the world file.  A file called
.I MyWorld.dmb
would run in safe mode by default if it existed in a directory called
.IR MyWorld .
This comparison is not sensitive to case.

.TP
.B \-\^suid " path"
Run as the owner of the specified file or directory.  Only root
may use this option.

.TP
.B \-\^suidself
Run as the owner of the world file.  Only root may use this option.
Note that it is also possible to set the suid bit on the .dmb file
so that other users may execute it with the same effect.  For this
to work,
.B DreamDaemon
must also have the suid bit set.

.TP
.B \-\^trace
Output a debug trace-log file to help the developers track bugs.

.TP
.B \-\^trusted
Allow access to any part of the filesystem and permit execution of
shell commands.  Note that allowing DreamDaemon to 
.I try
accessing any file does not mean the operating system will actually
allow the operation.  Normal system security is in no way compromised
by running in 
.B \-trusted
mode.

.TP
.B \-\^ultrasafe
Disallow all file access and forbid the .dmb program from executing
any shell commands.  This is the default if the world file is not
in a safe directory.  (See 
.BR \-\^safe .)

.TP
.B \-\^unsafe_diag
Don't block SIGUSR2 during lengthy I/O operations: useful if you 
want a backtrace via kill -USR2 and DreamDaemon is ignoring it due 
to I/O or infinite loop, but may be dangerous if a system call is 
interrupted.

.TP
.B \-\^version
Output the BYOND version and then exit.

.SH PORTS
A network port is required in order for a BYOND world to be reached
by players.  The port must also be accessible, which means the host machine
must have its own IP address and the specific port being used must not be
blocked from outside connections by any firewalls between the host and
the client.

Networks that perform IP masquerading may not host BYOND worlds to users on
the outside, because the machines inside the network do not have their own
external IP address.  Typically, only the machine that is acting as the
gateway to the outside will have its own IP address in these circumstances.

Firewalls that restrict access to ports must be configured to allow
connections to the port(s) being used for hosting BYOND worlds.  It is still
possible for ports to be dynamically assigned in this case, but you must
configure the list of usable ports, or
.B DreamDaemon
will most likely choose one that is not accessible through the firewall.

The range of ports that
.B DreamDaemon
may use is configured on the command line with the
.B \-ports
option, or in the
.B byond.txt
configuration file.  Settings in the system
configuration file restrict settings in user configuration files and those in
turn restrict settings made on the command line.

A typical line in
.B byond.txt
looks like this:

ports 1234,1236,1240-1250

The syntax is the same as the
.B \-ports
command-line option.

It should be noted that although the system and user configuration files may
be used to "control" the network ports being used on the system, this should
not be considered a high-security device.  It is intended merely as an
administrative aid.

.SH "DIRECT EXECUTION"
It is possible to execute .dmb programs directly by compiling with
.B world.executor
assigned to the path to
.BR DreamDaemon .
This happens automatically when you include the
.B Dantom.CGI
library in your source code.  (Install it with 
.BR DreamDownload ).
You would only need to override this if the default value does not match
the location of DreamDaemon on your system.

The only additional step is to change the file permissions to allow execution
of the .dmb file.
.B DreamDaemon
will be automatically invoked when the .dmb is executed.

Additional command-line parameters may be hard-coded in
.B world.executor
if necessary.  In the case of 
.BR Dantom.CGI ,
the options
.B \-cgi \-logself
are inserted using this technique.

If you need to alter the executor information and you do not have access to
the source code, the first line of the .dmb file may be edited directly.  Be
sure to use an editor that does not mangle binary data!

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B BYOND_SYSTEM
If this is set, it designates the location of the BYOND system configuration
files.  Otherwise, they are expected to be in
.BR /usr/local/byond .

.SH FILES
.TP
.B cfg/byond.txt
This file contains various system configuration options.  System-wide
configurations may be made in 
.BR BYOND_SYSTEM/cfg/byond.txt ,
and individual user configurations may be made in
.BR ~/.byond/cfg/byond.txt .

.SH LINKS
Visit www.byond.com to learn more about DM programming, chat with
the gurus, and explore the BYOND universe.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
DreamMaker(6)
