.\"
.\" Man page for DreamMaker
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2001, Dantom.
.\"
.\" We welcome you to distribute this software.
.\"
.\" Dantom
.\" dantom@dantom.com
.\"
.\"
.TH DreamMaker 6 "July 20, 2001"
.LO 6
.SH NAME
DreamMaker \- Compile DM programs to make BYOND worlds.
.SH SYNOPSIS
DreamMaker [options] source
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B DreamMaker
is the BYOND compiler.  It reads DM source code and produces .dmb byte-code
programs executable by 
.BR DreamDaemon
or
.BR DreamSeeker .
Such .dmb programs are platform independent, so they may be compiled by
.B DreamMaker
in a completely different operating system from the one in which the world
is executed.

.SH ARGUMENTS

.TP
.B \^source
This is the DM source code.  If no extension is specified, it searches
for a file ending in .dme and then .dm.  The output file always has
the same name as the input file but with the extension .dmb.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.B \-\^i
Generate
.BR include.txt .
This file contains a list of all the DM library dependencies.  When this
file is included in a source-code package installed by
.BR DreamDownload
from BYOND Hub, any dependencies that are not already present are
automatically installed at that time.

.TP
.B \-\^l
List all included source files.  This may be useful when preparing
source-code for distribution to others.

.SH ERRORS
Syntax errors are reported in a format similar to gcc, which many
popular editors can interpret for the purpose of automatically jumping
to the errors in the source code.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B BYOND_SYSTEM
If this is set, it designates the location of the BYOND system configuration
files.  Otherwise, they are expected to be in
.BR /usr/local/byond .

.SH FILES
.TP
.B BYOND_SYSTEM/lib/stddef.dm
This file contains various standard definitions used in DM programs.
It must exist and be accessible in order for the compiler to operate.

.SH LINKS
Visit www.byond.com to learn more about DM programming, chat with
the gurus, and explore the BYOND universe.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
DreamDaemon(6)
